# mp\_grid\_path

This function creates a path that will navigate through the given MP grid from a start point to a finish point, avoiding any obstacles that have been added into the grid.

The xstart and ystart arguments indicate the start of the path in room coordinates, while the xgoal, ygoal arguments indicate the destination. You can also select either horizontal/vertical movement only, or allow full diagonal movements by specifying true in the allowdiag argument. The function returns either true (it succeeded in finding a path) or false (it failed) and updates the given path asset path with the points found. In the following image, you can see how this all works together:

As you can see, the "pipe" objects have been added into the grid, meaning that any path created has to go around them. There are two paths created in the image, one (green) has been made with diagonals allowed and the other (red) without. The difference between the two is pretty obvious with the green path appearing much more "elegant" and direct, but it all depends what use you are going to put them to which one you prefer. Note that the path is independent of the current instance \- it is a path through the grid, not a path for a specific instance, even though a specific instance may have the variable that stores the path index. You may also need to debug these paths to see how they are made and interact within the game environment, in which case you should be using the [draw\_path](../../Drawing/Basic_Forms/draw_path.md) function.

  The path must have been previously created (either in code with [path\_add](../../Asset_Management/Paths/Path_Manipulation/path_add.md) or as an asset) and will be replaced by the path generated by this function.

 

#### Syntax:

mp\_grid\_path(id, path, xstart, ystart, xgoal, ygoal, allowdiag)

| Argument | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| id | [MP Grid ID](mp_grid_create.md) | Index of the mp\_grid that is to be used |
| path | [Path Asset](../../../../The_Asset_Editors/Paths.md) | The path that is to be used by the function |
| xstart | [Real](../../../GML_Overview/Data_Types.md) | Starting x coordinate of the new path |
| ystart | [Real](../../../GML_Overview/Data_Types.md) | Starting y coordinate of the new path |
| xgoal | [Real](../../../GML_Overview/Data_Types.md) | Finishing x coordinate of the new path |
| ygoal | [Real](../../../GML_Overview/Data_Types.md) | Finishing y coordinate of the new path |
| allowdiag | [Boolean](../../../GML_Overview/Data_Types.md) | Indicates whether diagonal moves are allowed instead of just horizontal or vertical |

 

#### Returns:

[Boolean](../../../GML_Overview/Data_Types.md)

 

#### Example:

global.grid \= mp\_grid\_create(0, 0, room\_width div 32, room\_height div 32, 32, 32\);  

 mp\_grid\_add\_instances(global.grid, obj\_wall, false);  

 with (obj\_enemy)  

 {  

     path \= path\_add();  

     if (mp\_grid\_path(global.grid, path, x, y, obj\_player.x, obj\_player.y, 1\))  

     {  

         path\_start(path, 0, 3, 0\);  

     }  

 }

The above code creates a global variable global.grid, then generates an mp\_grid and assigns its index (id) to that variable for use in all further mp\_grid function calls. It then adds all instances of obj\_wall to the grid before getting all instances of obj\_enemy to create a path and then use mp\_grid\_path to calculate a route from their position to the position of obj\_player. If a route exists then the object starts itself along the path.
